W-10588485-ftps-studio-configuration-kt (#1799)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: ftps/1.6/modules/ROOT/pages/ftps-studio-configuration.adoc

. <<configure-input-source,Configure a source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.
. <<configure-ftps-mode,Configure FTPS Mode for FTPS Connector>>.
. <<configure-tls,Configure TLS with Keystores and Truststores>>.
. <<configure-java,Configure Java JDK for Session Reuse>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems in real time, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:ftps-documentation.adoc[FTPS Connector Reference Reference].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

> Add FTPS Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add Anypoint Connector for FTPS (FTPS Connector) to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:
```

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *FTPS* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas and to the right of the source.

image::ftps-operations.png[FTP Connector Operations in Mule palette]

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to configure the FTP server connection.

To configure the global element for FTPS Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.
. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector:
. Set the *Working Directory* as the root of every relative path used with this connector. +
If it's not provided, the value defaults to the remote server.
. Set *Host* to specify the FTPS server host, for example, `localhost` or `0.0.0.0`.

> . Set *Username* and *Password*.

Reviewer: Lines 93-96 should be substeps, yes?

    </tls:context>
  </ftps:connection>
</ftps:config>
----

[[configure-ftps-mode]]
== Configure FTPS Mode for FTPS Connector

In the global element configuration, you can configure the *Ftps mode* field to either the following options:

* *Ftps explicit mode (Default)*
The explicit mode connects in an unprotected way to the FTP server. The client can negotiate TLS for either the command or data channel.
* *Ftps implicit mode*
The implicit mode assumes that a secure connection through an SSL/TLS handshake must take place before any FTP command is sent. This ensures that the entire FTP session is encrypted.

When you configure the *Ftps explicit mode (Default)*, you can also configure the data channel protection level through the *PROT Settings* field to either one of these options:

* *CLEAR*
The clear protection level indicates that the data channel carries the raw data of the file transfer, with no security applied. This is the default value.
* *PRIVATE*
The private protection level indicates that the integrity of the data and confidentiality are protected.

image::ftps-explicit-mode.png[FTPS Connector explicit mode configuration in Studio]

> In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `ftps=mode`, `ftps-explicit-mode`, and `protSetting` configurations look like this:

Reviewer: Yay! :-)

[source, xml, linenums]
----
 <ftps:config name="FTPS_Config">
   <ftps:connection username="anonymous" password="password"
    host="0.0.0.0" port="21" workingDir="${workingDir}">
     <tls:context>
         <tls:trust-store path="path/to/keystore" password="mulepassword" />
     </tls:context>
     <ftps:ftps-mode >
         <ftps:ftps-explicit-mode protSetting="PRIVATE" />
     </ftps:ftps-mode>
   </ftps:connection>
 </ftps:config>
----

image::ftps-implicit-mode.png[FTPS Connector implicit mode configuration in Studio]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `ftps=mode` and `ftps-implicit-mode` configurations look like this:

[source, xml, linenums]
----
<ftps:config name="FTPS_Config">
  <ftps:connection username="anonymous" password="password"
   host="0.0.0.0" port="21" workingDir="${workingDir}">
    <tls:context>
        <tls:trust-store path="path/to/keystore" password="mulepassword" />
    </tls:context>
    <ftps:ftps-mode >
        <ftps:ftps-implicit-mode />
    </ftps:ftps-mode>
  </ftps:connection>
</ftps:config>
----

[[configure-tls]]
== Configure TLS with Keystores and Truststores

> You can use Transport Layer Security (TLS) and configure FTPS by providing a key store with your certificate. You can also enable 2-way authentication by providing a trust store. For more information about TLS configuration, refer to the  xref:mule-runtime::tls-configuration.adoc[configure TLS with Keystores and Truststores] documentation.

Reviewer 2: trust store > truststore per our style

[[configure-java]]
== Configure Java JDK for Session Reuse

> To reuse sessions using FTPS you must disable the Extended Master Secret extension for compatibility (JDK-8192045), which by default is set to `true`. The extension protects users from vulnerabilities by using the same session on different groups of clients and servers, which contradicts the demand to use the same session for control and data connections. With the Extended Master Secret extension activated, session reuse is possible only by endpoint verification, which is implemented for HTTPS and LDAP only.

Reviewer: Not to sure about using "contradicts" in this context.... How about this?
```suggestion
To reuse sessions using FTPS you must disable the Extended Master Secret extension for compatibility (JDK-8192045), which by default is set to `true`. The extension protects users from vulnerabilities by using the same session on different groups of clients and servers, instead of using the same session for control and data connections. With the Extended Master Secret extension activated, session reuse is possible only by endpoint verification, which is implemented for HTTPS and LDAP only.
```

To disable the extension when working in Anypoint Studio, follow these steps:

. In Studio, click *Run > Run Configurations...*.
. In the *Run Configurations* screen, click the *(x)=Arguments* tab.

> . In the *VM arguments* box, add the following argument to the JVM execution:

Reviewer: to the execution or to the execution...command? syntax?

+
`-M-Djdk.tls.useExtendedMasterSecret=false`

image::ftps-jvm-configuration.png[JVM argument to disable Extended Master Secret in Run Configurations window]

[start=4]
. Click *Apply*.
. Click *Run*.

> To disable the Extended Master Secret extension when working in a standalone Mule environment, add the following argument to the JVM execution:

Reviewer: ditto re. "execution"
